>> Turkey just made an
announcement about a major
archeological discovery
at Gobekli Tepe.
Could this finally shed light
on who built the world's oldest
megalithic site, and why?
This is Gaia News.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
First unearthed in 1995, the
11,000-year old excavation site
at Gobekli Tepe has yielded
the most significant collection
of stone pillar monoliths
ever discovered.
While most archeologists
agree that the structure is
the world's oldest
temple, they have long
debated the origins and
motivations of its builders.
The recent findings
of 11, possibly
12 new sites around Gobekli
Tepe may provide those answers.
Andrew Collins is an
ancient history researcher
who has written
extensively about the site.
>> Gobekli Tepe
is, in many ways,
the best evidence that we
have of a lost civilization,
a pre-Ice Age civilization
that existed worldwide and was
probably wiped out by the very
harsh conditions and possibly
some kind of comet impact
about 13,000 years ago.
And that the sole
remnants of this
went on to create Gobekli Tepe.
And this was constructed
from around 9,600
BC down to about
8,000 BC by what
appears to have been
hunter-gatherers who had not
even invented agriculture.
>> Little is known about these
people but researchers have
theories about
their motivations.
>> The best evidence would seem
to suggest that the creation
of places like Gobekli Tepe and
probably other similar sites
in that region was the response
to this cataclysm that has
happened twice.
And in many ways,
what they wanted to do
was to have some kind
of failsafe mechanism
to allow their shamans to
enter into the other world
and deal with the supernatural
creatures that they believed
were responsible for cataclysms.
And when I say
creatures, I'm talking
about their visible
manifestation
in the sky as comets.
>> What is clear about the
builders is their remarkable
technological savvy.
>> The builders of Gobekli
Tepe would seem to have been
technologically
advanced in many ways.
Not just from the
point of view of being
able to create
these huge monuments
with these T-shaped
terminations,
but they had the
skill to be able to do
these beautiful
high relief carvings
on the side of the stone.
But on top of this was
the smaller objects
that they were able to create
beautiful stone jewelry.
And this and many
other skills tell us
that we're dealing with
a high tech culture here.
>> The significance of this,
according to some scholars is
far reaching.
>> You will find in this
area evidence of this lost
civilization that basically
seeded us with the rudiments
of civilization that are
remembered as being given to us
by the Watchers of
the Book of Enoch,
the Anunnaki of
Sumerian ancient texts,
the so-called immortals
of Iranian mythology.
All of these things were
invented by the peoples
that made Gobekli Tepe.
>> Given this, the importance
of finding out more about this
civilization cannot
be overestimated,
which is why the recent findings
at the site are being met with
such excitement.
>> What has been announced
by the director of operations
at Gobekli Tepe is that his
team have discovered 11,
although he also
refers to them as 12,
different sites that would
seem to be in a circle around
Gobekli Tepe.
And what he's
referring to here are
so-called occupational maps.
And these are huge mounds
of earth and human debris.
They're like layer
cakes of human activity.
And what would
happen is that people
would build maybe their houses
or enclosures or whatever,
and they would then cover
them up, and either build next
to them or build on top of them.
And that's how you
gradually create
these huge occupational mounds.
>> The findings of the
investigations of these mounds
have not yet been made public.
In the meantime,
researchers have ideas
about what they could yield.
>> The new findings at Gobekli
Tepe will give us our first
information about who the
builders were of Gobekli Tepe
because it is extremely likely
that the 12 sites around
the mine hill of which
Gobekli Tepe stands was where
the builders lived.
So we will find
evidence of their bones,
we'll find evidence
of their technologies,
and this will give
us information
about where they came from
because this is a big mystery.
>> Some experts also believe
these new mounds may shed some
light on the world views of
the people who live there.
>> What is being suggested is
that there could be a symbolic
value in the amount of 12
occupational mounds that is
being used.
It's symbolic, it has
some kind of value.
We divide up the
heavens into 12 parts,
so what it tells us is
that Gobekli Tepe may
have represented
the point of meeting
between heaven and Earth.
And that's the reason
why the symbolism of 12
is reflected in the
use of 12 stones.
And why there might have been 12
settlements around the outside
of the Gobekli Tepe.
And I think that's very
significant because it tells us
that the mindset of
the Gobekli builders
was one that was totally fixed
on symbolism and the heavens.
And that we should be looking
for answers up there in space
as to exactly what was
going on at Gobekli Tepe.
>> Excitement is building
for the forthcoming findings,
which are hoped to provide
a deeper understanding
of the fascinating lost
civilization from which we may
have been seeded.
For new perspective,
this is Gaia News.
For more information
on this topic,
check out this content on Gaia.